Boyhood Days, Rabindranath Tagore Kolkata, one of those cities where the heart and soul of India lives in, stands on the banks of the river Hooghly (one of the tributories of  Ganges) and is the capital city of West Bengal.   But Calcutta continued to be a major trade city and the academic capital of India. The city is the capital of the state West Bengal and also a former British India capital. Some people argue that the name was coined from the two Bengali words kali (which means lime 	)  and kata	 (meaning burnt shell), since the area was noted for the manufacture of shell-lime. The Indian city formerly known as Calcutta, offically changed its name to the Bengali version as year 2001 started.  The political history of Kolkata begins when the East India Company chose the city for  a trade settlement in 1690. A major flood hit the city in 1978 and took many lives. According to one theory, the name means “Ground of the Goddess Kali”, while another speculates that the name originates from the word “kilikita” which means flat ground.  It was in this city that the great Subhash Chandra Bose started his long and influencing struggle for freedom. The great fim maker Satyajith Ray,  the spiritual leader Swami Vivekananda, and the scientist Jagdish Chandra Bose were all sons of the same city. The origin of the name Kolkata is still uncertain, although it is well known that the British anglicised it to Calcutta, and in 2001, this famous city reclaimed her original name. Some others match the name to the Bengali word Kilkila which means flat area, since this word was used to refer to this area in some of the ancient literature. In 1947, while India obtained freedom from the British, Bengal was partitioned and Calcutta was made the capital of the  state of West Bengal. They built a number of new buildings and the face of the city started to change. In the three centuries of its history, Calcutta has grown from a mere fishing village into the largest city in India with a population of 10.5 million. Calcutta was the name the British gave the city while it was made their capital. The capital and the most important city of the Bengal was Murshidabad. Kolkata, formerly Calcutta, is also known as the City of Joy, after the title of the famous book by Dominique Lapierre. But the nerves of the city are throbbing still with the fever of thought which has burnt all day in her brain. In 1699 they started developing Kolkatta as a city. But in June 1757, the British defeated him and conquered the city back.