There are various other names for  neighborhoods both small and large, but that's one of the joys of living in a large, vibrant urban area.   Families come to the beach in hordes on most evenings to eat at the snack-stalls  while kids ride horses, camels, ferris-wheels and merry-go-rounds on the beach.   Bombay continues to grow at a fast clip, and will be the world's most populous city with 28.5 million inhabitants by 2020 (eclipsing Tokyo and Mexico City).   Building more roads is hardly the solution to Bombay's transportation problem, what the city needs is a large, efficient subway network to entice people off the roads.   The marshes have for the most part been reclaimed over the years and the city is now one large island with a few salt-water creeks criss-crossing it.   Past and PresentFormerly known as Bombay, the city's name was changed in 1994 to Mumbai.   A large number of students attend the Hindi/Urdu/Marathi medium schools that are found all over the city.   The city is built on what was a string of 7 marshy islands off the western coast of India and now covers an area of over 600 sq km.   Neighborhoods Listed geographically from the southern center to the northern suburbs, I have used the names of the train-stations on the commuter lines, since those are the most well-known.   Since many of these films are set in Bombay, millions of Indians who have never visited the city are familiar with its streetscape, peculiar language and culture.   The Bombay film industry has long operated in a symbiotic relationship with the small drama troupes in the city.   TransportBombay's public transport system consists of a surface rail network running north-south in two lines and an extensive system of buses.   short before reclamation...turned the Seven Isles into a long peninsula like an outstretched, grasping hand, eaching  westwards into the Arabian Sea; in this primeval world before clocktowers, the fishermen - who were called Kolis - sailed in Arab dhows, spreading red sails against the setting sun. Dadar, Matunga and Mahim are the original suburbs of Bombay, since the 80s they have been considered part of the city center.   Mulund and Thane form the last outposts of the island city, close to the bridges leading to the mainland.   Bombay is largely an immigrant city, over the years various groups have arrived in waves from all over India.   Since pasteurized milk is not common, there are a number of dairies within the city, some of these house hundreds of Indian water buffalo in a thatched sheds.   Most of the city's textile traders (who increasingly source from the mills in Gujarat) have offices here.   Fresh milk is delivered door-to-door early in the morning by a milk-man who ladles fresh full-cream milk out of a large steel drum into plastic bags or steel pots held out by bleary-eyed customers.   The city remains for me like a half-forgotten lover whose arms I yearn to return to with varying degrees of acuteness.   Finance, insurance, airlines, entertainment, travel, and commercial trading form the back-bone of the city's wealth.   During the partition, Bombay remained largely free of violence, and its large Muslim community remained in Bombay with few opting to leave for Pakistan (one notable exception was Mohammed Ali Jinnah the founder of Pakistan).   Bombay's road network is terrible for a city of its size.   Their efforts paid off and the city was soon a bustling port.   Fort is the center of the city.   Since English is a privilege of the wealthy in India, your experience in the city will be limited unless you speak Hindi/Urdu, Marathi or Gujarati.   The term Mumbai is what the local community of fishermen called the southern-most island.   There were three gates to the city, Apollo, Church (near Saint Thomas church) and Bazaar.   As a mercantile city, it enjoyed a reputation for tolerance and diversity.   Bombay exercises a strange attraction for the rest of the country because it is the center of the Hindi Film industry, often called Bollywood.   Fort encompasses the Flora fountain (now called Hutatma chowk), the area around the stock exchange, the general post-office, and Apollo Bunder (now graced by the Gateway of India and a quay from where boats depart for the Elephanta island).   The city will remain Bombay in my mind because I left before it was renamed.   There have been various plans to add north-south expressways, but none have been built, largely because acquiring the land would be prohibitively expensive.   Sanitation and urban planning are poor, there are a large number of shanties and most of the streets are too narrow for cars to pass.   The city traces its origins to the Portugese foray into India.   The original British fortified settlement (largely complete by 1715) is now the portion of downtown Bombay called Fort.   Numerous statues of the god Ganesh are built by artisans and sculptors in local handicraft shops during the summer and delivered to homes and local organizations in September, right after the monsoon.   As in most large cities, space is at a premium in Bombay and families of 5-6 can often be found living in a one or two bedroom flat.   Political themes (largely leftist) were commonplace in Hindi films, and numerous movies from the 70s revolve around poverty and worker's rights.   On the final day of the festival, they are carried to the shore in large processions and immersed in the water.   Many Bombay films are financed by producers operating on the fringe of the law and these films give expression to their rough and tumble world.   Dharavi, an area often called the world's largest slum, lies along Mahim creek.   The southern tip of the island (downtown or central Bombay) is largely commercial.   Hindi pot-boilers are watched all over the country as Hindi is the most widely spoken language in India with 400 million native speakers, primarily in north India.   In day to day communication, Bombayites switch between languages, often employing a mish-mash of Hindi/Urdu, Marathi, Gujarati and English called Bambaiya.   The bazaars where most of Bombay's merchant community transacts business are a little further north, in what used to be the native quarter during British rule.   The Koli (fishermen) community that originally inhabited the islands can still be found all along the shore.   The eastern part of the island was largely industrial though this is changing as heavy industries move out of Bombay.   In the 70s and 80s, widespread strikes affected the textile industry in Bombay as trade-unions protested the unsafe conditions in many of Bombay's mills.   You can find regional delicacies from other parts of India such as idli, vadaa, dosa, chana-puri and samosas along with Bombay's very own paani-puri, bhel-puri, bhaaji-pau, tandoori fish, frankie and increasingly Bombay style Chinese.   The major train stations Victoria Terminus (a gothic masterpiece that serves long-distance trains) and Churchgate (local trains) are in Fort.   Most large mills moved to Surat since many of the owners were from Gujarat, and production of cloth in Bombay has been declining ever since.   Boats set out ever day to fish in the Arabian Sea and the fresh produce forms part of Bombay's unique cuisine.   The Parsis are followers of Zarathustra who fled Persia (modern-day Iran) in the 8th century after the Arab invasion and settled in Gujarat as a community of traders.   Most of Juhu was originally a sandy island called Juhu Tara, the rest of it was a marsh.   Housing was largely segregated with the communities separated by language, culture and faith.   Colaba is probably the most desirable residential neighborhood in Bombay, it occupies the southern-most end of the island.   Parel is the largely industrial suburb north-east of Mahalaxmi.   The impact of the Parsi community is exceptional, largely due to the adaptability they demonstrated under British rule, and their interest in education.   A substantial portion of the population lives in shanty-towns or slums, many of which are built on land illegally occupied.   Drama has always played a large role in Bombay's culture.   This partition came amidst a series of language riots between Marathi and Gujarati speakers which gave rise to the Shiv Sena (army of Shiva), a right-wing Marathi political party.   On March 12, 1993 ten large bombs were detonated simultaneously in various parts of Bombay in an act of choreographed terrorism.   In 1960, the state of Bombay was partitioned along linguistic lines into the largely Marathi-speaking Maharashtra and the predominantely Gujrati-speaking Gujarat.   The crowded 4-5 storey tenements called chawls are another persistent feature of housing in Bombay.   Many of the better screen-writers dabble in drama, as do some of the better poets who write lyrics for Hindi films.   Most middle-class Bombayites live in apartments in the northern suburbs.   Throughout its history, Bombay has been largely sheltered from the caste riots that have engulfed India at various points.   Storefronts occupied by merchant-traders of the old-school line the narrow streets.   Virtually every consumer good imaginable is sold here, with various small streets specializing in gold jewelry, crockery, household appliances and books.   The three lakes which serve as reservoirs for Bombay, Tulsi, Vihar and Powai lie within the National Park, which is home to a variety of wild-life, including panthers and lions.   Rushdie's novels are often set in Bombay and it remains home for him in many ways.   The East India Company rapidly fortified the area and built a quay and warehouse.   Over 200 films are churned out by the film-makers in Bombay every year, most in Hindi.   Bombay Boys: This beautiful low-budget film by Kaizad Gustad relates the story of three young men who are second-generation immigrants in Australia, the UK and the USA.   Today, they can be found almost exclusively in Bombay, and in small communities spread all over the world.  