Natural language processors use recursion, analyzing word by word and phrase by phrase until they hit something solid that they know exactly how to interpret.   Since we don't know how our own brains decode language, it's foolish to expect to be able to reproduce human language analysis with computers in this day and age.   In my opinion Natural Language processing won't ever work unless we find some way to make a machine feel emotion.   If they wanted to know exactly what happened and remove all ambiguity, the reader of the sentence would ask the speaker to clarify exactly who was walking where.   Our attempts at creating computer programs that can parse and gain meaning from the languages humans use is known as natural language processing.   Current natural language processing methods are built around the grammar analysis research already done by linguists, modified to fit an engineering problem.   First you would push your dog's butt down whilst saying 'sit'...after doing that for a while your dog will probably still be confused but you try saying sit and hope that he will sit unassisted.   In the second sentence, it's probable that both the speaker and his friend were walking across the bridge and they saw each other in passing.   It would be a mistake to try and conquer all of the ambiguity in natural language by introducing rules and other fixed paths.   In the first sentence, it's obvious to us that the speaker is walking over the bridge, and saw the river as he passed over it.   As it turns out, natural language processors are not half bad when they are fed straight-forward, simple sentences.   Along with most developments in artificial intelligence, natural language processing is in its infancy.   The most advanced systems we have today still cannot handle language the way a five year old child can.   However, in the second sentence, both characters are equally likely to be walking, so there is valid ambiguity there.   But it's also possible that the speaker was riding in a car across the bridge and saw his friend walking across.   the dog jumped un the air, and then the next time the dog sat, and the time after that it started panting.   When there is only one way to interpret something, it's not hard to break a sentence up, find the subject, verb, object, any modifiers.... etc.   Doing that would take a very long time, and it won't magically make clarity out of haze for the entire English language.   This is just another example of the convoluted nature of natural language.   esapersona's writeup above mentions the notion of emotion driving language.   So what is it exactly that makes us eliminate the possibility of the river walking over the bridge?  