The state of the mind when it is powerfully acted upon and influenced by something external to itself; the state of any particular faculty which, under such conditions, becomes extremely sensitive or uncontrollably excited; any emotion or sentiment (specifically, love or anger) in a state of abnormal or controlling activity; an extreme or inordinate desire; also, the capacity or susceptibility of being so affected; as, to be in a passion; the passions of love, hate, jealously, wrath, ambition, avarice, fear, etc.; a passion for war, or for drink; an orator should have passion as well as rhetorical skill.   When any feeling or emotion completely masters the mind, we call it a passion; as, a passion for music, dress, etc.; especially is anger (when thus extreme) called passion. Passion flower Bot., any flower or plant of the genus Passiflora; -- so named from a fancied resemblance of parts of the flower to the instruments of our Savior's crucifixion. , originally, music set to the gospel narrative of the passion of our Lord; after the Reformation, a kind of oratorio, with narrative, chorals, airs, and choruses, having for its theme the passion and crucifixion of Christ. "The name of Passion week is frequently, but improperly, applied to Holy Week." -- Passion play, a mystery play, in which the scenes connected with the passion of our Savior are represented dramatically. See Passion week, below. For more information on the history and etiology of classifications of emotion, see James Fieser's paper (and the source for this brief write-up) "Hume's Classification of the Passions and its Precursors" at http://www.utm.edu/~jfieser/vita1/research/passion.htm He makes this clear in the opening scene, where he puts into the mouths of his two beautiful lovers, Clara and Giorgio, some of the most purposely banal lyrics he ever wrote, making it clear that these lovers are not the interesting ones in this story. The nature of the human mind can not be sufficiently understood, without considering the affections and passions, or those modifications or actions of the mind consequent upon the apprehension of certain objects or events in which the mind generally conceives good or evil. The state of being acted upon; subjection to an external agent or influence; a passive condition; -- opposed to action. Her passion is to seek roses." angerAnger is the only emotion without a mirror on the other side of the coin; for Aquinas, the opposite of anger was not another emotion but its absence, or non-anger. You can see the straight laced fun loving party fiend, out for a good time and then the 'Clubbing's My Life' sort of person, dressed to impress. She so thoroughly embodied her monomania that she called into question all of our comfortable ideas about love and lust, kindness and cruelty. the force of fallswhen all we do is sleepWhile the the early division of passions into four categories is found first in Plato, the Stoic Cicero was the first to develop a full theory of the passions in his Tusculan Disputations. The passions of this time." Further, the quality of the passion will be affected by the "goodness" or "badness" of the object of desire. "Dumbly she passions, frantically she doteth." -- Passion Week, the last week but one in Lent, or the second week preceding Easter. A suffering or enduring of imposed or inflicted pain; any suffering or distress (as, a cardiac passion); specifically, the suffering of Christ between the time of the last supper and his death, esp. -- Passion, Feeling, Emotion.   But this story is also about light and dark, the physical and the spiritual, the head and the heart.  The term passion, and its adverb passionately, often express a very strong predilection for any pursuit, or object of taste -- a kind of enthusiastic fondness for anything. The plants are mostly tendril climbers, and are commonest in the warmer parts of America, though a few species are Asiatic or Australian. © Webster 1913. © Webster 1913. In "Passion," Stephen Sondheim had no intention of writing a conventional love story. Acts i. 3. The good and the bad are also seen to be correlates of each other under the single rubrics of concupiscible and irascible: Concupiscible (Good) Wyclif (Rom. viii. 18). Acts xiv. 15. Locke. [R.] Bacon. Lady M. W. Montagu. Hutcheson. Cogan. Shak. Pope. Akenside. Addison. [Obs.]